And we are back. Now, this is the last
lecture about Twitter in this section
of the course. Twitter will definitely
come up again more than once later on,
but you are off the Twitter hook for a while right
after this lecture. In this lecture, we're going to
talk about people on Twitter who
are talking about your competitors.
Now, there is a reason why people
complain about companies on Twitter.
That reason is that almost all
businesses have a Twitter account.
In fact, as of I think it was last year, Twitter estimated that
almost two thirds of all U.S. companies have some sort
of a presence on Twitter.
And when you can't get a response to the numerous
e-mails you sent to a company, or if you're like me and
too lazy to wait on hold with customer service,
why not complain on Twitter?
It is public after all, which means you're more likely to get
a response from someone at the company, even if the
person responding is one of those millennials who
companies hire to run their social media because the
executives have no clue how this works.
It's like phoning into the customer service line,
if that conversation was being streamed
online for hundreds of people to watch.
Now, some companies even have dedicated customer
service Twitter accounts, like, for instance, everyone's
favorite ISO, Comcast. ISO, of course, stands for - anyone? -
Internet Service Overlord. Comcast's customer service
account is hilariously called @ComcastCares, which is probably
just the epitome of what we call a corporate facepalm.
Regardless, these accounts are a great place to
meet people who don't like a company's service.
Pretty obvious. Before we jump further into this,
we need to talk a little bit about competitors.
Technically speaking, what is a competitor?
I'm sure some companies come to mind
when you're thinking about your product,
but let's take a minute or two
to try to actually break it down.
A competitor is someone who competes
for the same users or the same customers.
Sounds relatively obvious, but it's actually not.
In fact, there are several different ways that you can classify
your competitors based on how they compete with you.
For instance, a direct competitor is anyone who is
targeting the same group of people you are targeting
and with a very similar product.
They are direct because consumers can
do almost like a one to one comparison.
If you lose a sale, there's a good chance it could
instead end up with one of your direct competitors.
The other classification worth knowing, we're going to skip
the other two for this lecture, is an indirect competitor.
An indirect competitor, on the other hand, goes after
not the same customers per se, but the same needs,
and they generally are going to do it with
a product that is not really the same.
It's pretty different.
A restaurant, for instance, is an indirect competitor
to, say, a frozen pizza company like DiGiorno.
They both solve hunger and a casual lust for pizza.
Now, can you guess who might be a
direct competitor to DiGiorno? Rubber.
A circular tube of rubber you found on the side
of the road is a direct competitor to DiGiorno.
They are virtually indistinguishable from each other,
and if you eat them, presumably you will become full.
Now, why bring this up?
Well, because it's very easy to lose
sight of who the true competitor is.
Quick rule of thumb.
Do they have a similar product
targeting the same people?
Or are they at least targeting the same need or problem,
but with something kind of funky and not directly
comparable to what you're trying to use?
As long as they pass that rule of thumb test, well, then
we know we are in fact rubbing shoulders with them,
and in this case, that means we should target
their unsuspecting Twitter accounts.
So open up a spreadsheet and jot down
any competitors you already know about.
Then just do a bit of googling around for the other ones.
Search using words that people might use
to find whatever it is you're working on.
You can also try searching for ways that you
would describe your business. If need be,
flash back to the previous lectures in this section
for how you can kind of think through this.
You can also jump in the Slack
and we can all help you out.
OK, now that you've got a little list of possible competitors,
take to Google.com and insert the following.
Insert the name of the company,
the competitor you found,
plus... yeah, you guessed it, Twitter.
If you add these two keywords
together, you'll find their Twitter
99.99% of the time. When you find one,
type that competitor's @username
into that spreadsheet next to their name.
You get the username by just looking at the URL, it's
generally the last thing you see. Now, once you're done
with that, you can go back to the search.twitter.com,
but we're going to get more advanced with it this time.
Oh, would you look at that, it says "advanced search"
right here. Advanced search on Twitter is, well, more
advanced than regular search,
if that wasn't obvious enough.
Look down the page slightly and you'll see
a field that says "Mentioning these accounts."
This is where we'll be plugging in those competitors'
usernames that we just collected a second ago.
I'm just, for example, say, going to type in @ComcastCares,
since it pretty much guarantees that I'll
find some gems in the search results.
Hold on for just a second.
Don't click "Search" quite yet.
Let's enhance the search results just a tad bit more.
I personally like to change the written language to English.
Why?
Well, because, like a true American, I don't
speak any other languages whatsoever.
With this, you can narrow down the search results to
stuff you'll actually understand by picking whatever
language makes sense for your business.
For example, let's say we live on the West coast of Ireland.
Well, maybe we want to find some people who speak Irish.
Yeah, that's a language.
Can anyone actually guess how
you spell competitor in Irish?
I'll give you a second.
You could probably guess it,
it's actually pretty easy. Competitor.
I-O-M-A-I-T-H-E-O-I-R.
Just sound it out: competitor.
Last thing.
Scroll to the bottom and select both "negative" and "question",
because those will get us straight to the complainy
people that we kind of want to find. Negative just means
tweets that have a negative tone to them, because
Twitter can actually search for that,
while question means, well, that the person is asking
the account a question, and those questions are often
pretty passive aggressive, often include complaints.
Twitter has mountains of data about how people
talk about stuff, and those help filter out all of the
positive things people will be tweeting about Comcast,
if such a thing even exists.
Cool. Now let's see what we find.
We can use the people in these
feeds in a couple of different ways.
Number one, we can reply directly to the person talking
or complaining and intervene in their conversation,
or two, we can send a separate tweet by
@mentioning the specific person who is talking.
The first option can be a little tricky because your
competitor will be able to see that you did it.
Now, you really shouldn't be worried that much about
whether or not your competition is going to see it,
and if your competition is, say, like a big company,
they're probably not even going to notice this at all or let
alone care that you did it.
But if you're in one of these information sensitive
situations where you're in stealth mode or you work
for a company and your company might notice,
okay, let's try the second technique.
In the second technique,
just go with the second option that we mentioned
and @mention the person instead.
What this means is that you just start a brand new
tweet with that person, shows up on their news feed,
not on Comcast's news feed,
and in this case, just write something in
reference to the tweet you found them from.
Here are a few examples of things you could write
so you don't come across as that weird stalker-ish
sales guy. "@username Couldn't help but notice
your tweet about [such and such] competitor.
Check out what I'm working on. I think you'll like it."
Or how about another one?
"@username I couldn't agree more,
[such and such] competitor is ridiculous!
That's why we created [insert the name of your product]."
You can take really an infinite number
of directions. Whatever you do,
just don't say "Try my product" and put a
link to your website, and just leave it like that.
You've got to try it a little bit harder.
A couple more quick things on competitor searches
on Twitter that could come in handy here and there.
Since it's important to respond to tweets
when they are fresh and newly made,
it would make sense that, number one, we might not
have a whole lot of tweets to hit right now that qualify
as brand new and fresh, and two, they probably
come in sporadically throughout the day.
Now, one way of handling this is to use Twitter's embedded
system for saving the searches that have worked out for you.
Let's go back to the search we did earlier in this lecture.
We can save this search so we can quickly access it later
on by clicking on the "More" dropdown and clicking
"Save this search."
Now, you can dip in every once in a while and use the
preset searches that you know will find you people.
Lastly, you can use a tool like Mention.com to send
you a notification every time someone mentions
one of your competitors.
It's sort of like saving a search on Twitter, but
it will send you a notification each time there's
a new tweet mentioning whatever the keyword
or whatever the company you're interested in is.
Now, I'd definitely not recommend using it if your competitor
is a company as despised as Comcast, because
that is just way too many notifications.
Okay, on to the next lecture and moving on from Twitter.
Adios muchachos.